To create these flowers,
we have these kind of seven
different actions and
then, and within those some
key takeaways that will
help us cover SVG and D3.
So the first is to just draw
a flower petal onto the screen.
And for that we'll use SVG paths,
and so about one we'll be
able to learn about SVG
coordinate system and SVG paths.
And in particular the D or
define attribute on SVG paths.
Then we're going to use D3 to select that
existing petal, and bind the movie data.
And for that we'll be able to
learn about D3 selections,
data binding, and
setting attributes and CSS styles.
Then we'll create a petal for each movie.
And, when we do that, we'll learn
about D3's enter append pattern,
and we'll also learn
a little bit more SVG,
we'll learn about SVG transforms, and
in particular the translate command.
And once we have a petal drawn for
each movie,
what we're going to do is then we're going
to render it based on all of the data.
So we'll use D3 scales to
translate our data to what we need
to draw onto the screen.
And so we'll use D3 min,
max, extend, D3 scales,
and also the scale function for
SVG transforms.
Once we have all of the data
mapped to our individual petals,
we'll learn about nesting
with D3 selection, so
turn each of those petals
into flowers of their own.
And we'll also use SVG rotate or
transforms rotate to do that.
And then towards the end,
we will learn about
how D3 does their update and exit pattern.
And what this is, or
oftentimes what you'll
probably have is, data sets that change.
So, if you have one state of data and
then maybe something happens,
maybe this is like a real
time updating data set.
And so you'll have like a next
state that you're trying to go to,
and then when that happens with D3,
there's something called
the Enter update exit pattern.
And that's how you update the DOM,
the browser DOM,
to update it from what was rendered for
that first data state
to the next data state.
And that's when we'll also
learn about D3 transitions.
And that's kind of D3's version
of animations or not version,
but it's D3's implementation
of kind of animations.
So we'll animate from that first state
data state to the next data state.
And finally we're going to
learn a little bit about D3's,
many, many variety of ways
to kind of lay out the data.
So we'll have like a very brief overview
of D3's shapes and hierarchies.
And then we'll use the D3 force layout to
position our film flowers by the genres.
So this will hopefully be like
a good kinda high level overview
of the D3 library, so
that by the end you'll feel pretty
comfortable digging around in
different parts and most importantly,
there's a lot a lot of
examples in the D3 community.
So, you'll hopefully feel very comfortable
digging into each of these examples,
reading the code and
understanding exactly what is going on.
And, So a little bit of resources,
and kind of data visualization ecosystem.
So here is the D3 API reference.
As [LAUGH] I mentioned earlier, so
these are all the different modules that
you're seeing on the screen right now.
And then if you like, scroll through,
I personally find it a little
bit overwhelming, but
we'll kind of cover how to go
through this API together.
So there's, it just has a lot
of really great functionality but,
I'm just showing this
to you don't get yeah.
But this is kind of how the doc is
structured, and I think it'd be really
helpful to kind of take a look at this
later, to figure out what is going on.
And the next really great resource is,
as I mentioned earlier,
with D3 ecosystem, there's a lot
of examples that have been built
a lot of like little bite sized
examples that have been built.
And when D3 first started in 2011,
a lot of these examples
were hosted on this website
called blocks bldocs.org.
And you can see these
are some of the popular ones,
and I think there's something like 40 or
50,000 of these examples, so
if you want to take a look,
It used to look something like this,
where you'll have kind of
a preview of the code.
And, Gosh,
so you'll have a preview of the code.
And then here, you'll have the index HTML.
And so basically this is what's being
rendered up here in the preview.
So this is how we used to kind
of like look at D3 examples for
a good number of years.
So this is the D3 code, and
then we will kind of like look at this and
play around with it to
figure out what's going on.
And then I think two years ago or so,
Observable was launched, and
let's see if I can give you the home
view, Let me show you the home view.
So yeah, so
Observable is well they describe
themselves I think as a magic notebook for
data and
visualization I think is how
they describe themselves.
Explore and visualize data,
discover and be inspired.
Yeah, so this is kind of a lot of
where the D3 examples are hosted now.
If you look at the docs and For
kind of a lot of the D3 functions
if you see an examples link
right next to that function,
it will usually lead to
an Observable notebook.
And I think of Observable
notebooks a little bit like,
if Jupyter Notebooks were on the web,
and built for
instead of writing in Python you write in
JavaScript, and built for visualization.
So, that's what we're using today.
And, I think another note
I should mention about
Observable is that I think the key
difference is that whereas,
my understanding of
other notebooks is that
each cell is evaluated in
a like top down order.
So, whatever cell comes first is
evaluated first, Observable notebook is,
I believe,
evaluated I think they call it reactively.
So, there's a dependency
chain of cells and
whatever is at the top root
of that dependency chain is,
evaluated first and then going down.
So actually I've gotten questions
where people were a little bit
confused about where the like
requires where or the imports where.
So, I have a lot of those down here.
And that's just because the cells
can be in any order that I want.
So, I like to just order my notebook
with all of the information up top,
and kind of all of the utility
functions at the bottom.
So if you ever get lost in
any of these notebooks and
you're wondering where
something is happening,
oftentimes a might be at the bottom,
so I just wanted to give that now.
And for observable, I wanted to give a
small disclaimer that as of right now for
like the next few months,
I have a partnership with Observable to
create a certain number of notebooks.
But, I also want to say that I've been
using the Observable for the last two and
a half years and I will have created
this workshop with observable anyways.
So just a small disclaimer but also
that I would have just used it anyways.
And the last two are more kind
of like community resources.
So, there is a D3 slack and
where you can kind of
ask questions about D3.
And then there is a wider
data visualization society,
and they aren't D3 specific.
But I think there's a lot of people
knowledgeable of D3 in their slack also.
So I think both would
be great resources for,
if you're really stuck on D3 and
you want some help,
I think those places would be
great places to ask, so yeah.